Entangled tokens (#4950)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-4950.md

---
eip: 4950
title: Entangled Tokens

> description: An ERC721-compatible standard with only two tokens minted that are tied together

Reviewer: We try to discourage "standard" in EIP titles and descriptions.

```suggestion
description: ERC-721 extension with two tokens minted that are tied together
```

author: Victor Munoz (@victormunoz)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/entangled-tokens/8702
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-03-28
requires: 721
---

## Abstract

> We define entangled tokens to A and B to the tokens that share a same wallet, so that any transaction with the wallet could be operated by any of them.

Reviewer: I find this sentence unclear. Maybe:

```suggestion
This EIP standardizes an interface for creating entangled pairs of tokens. An entangled pair of tokens are always owned by the same wallet: transferring one token transfers both of them.
```

Author: Updated it

## Motivation
The functionality is similar to the entanglement of two particles but with tokens, in the sense that whatever changes the state of A it affects B. Changes in the state of a token are actuated on a wallet by means of transfer to and from the wallet of whatever fungible and non-fungible tokens.

> Initially both minted tokens belong to the contract creator, but they can be transferred normally as any other NFT, so that they may belong to different users. The two users owning tokens can operate with the contract wallets. Therefore, the contract wallet (which may contain balances in several tokens) is “tangled” with both users. If a user makes some transfer, automatically the other user “sees” it.

Reviewer: This is not appropriate content for the Motivation section. This section should explain why this EIP as a whole should exist. In this case, it should explain who needs entangled tokens, and why we need a standard interface for them.

Author: Updated

## Specification

> A tangled token is an NFT (ERC-721) with a modification such that it does not mint only one token at the contract deployment, but it mints two instead, and the token owners have access to the contract wallet.

Reviewer: ERC-721 doesn't specify how or when tokens are minted. I'd recommend you do the same in this standard.

Author: Updated

> The constructor should mint the unique token of the contract, and then the mint function should add a restriction to avoid more minting.

Reviewer: Again, ERC-721 doesn't specify a `mint` function, so if you want one, you'll have to define it here.

> Also, a `tokenTransfer` function should be added in order to allow the contract owner to transact with the ERC20 tokens owned by the contract/NFT itself.

Reviewer: This is under-specified. What should this function look like? What exactly does it do?

Author: Updated

## Rationale

> We advocate the entangled tokens have key utility for the value preservation (vreservation) of digital assets, though other further applications are here explained. In the case of value preservation, its importance arises since we'll see a massive migration of value (in the history of mankind) onto the Blockchain along with a new identity forged on blockchain for this value. This value needs to be preserved. So we see how value migrates (1), tokenises (2) and preserves (3) the value of digital assets as NFT as a means of a totally new identity and wealth management for a private and safe assets scrow for all, and redefining the today’s role of consumers towards a more co-creation and co-ownership of locals.

Reviewer: This section reads more like it should go in "Motivation". The Rationale section is for describing the reasoning behind specific choices in this EIP. An example for this particular EIP could be why you chose to extend EIP-721 instead of EIP-1155.

An extension of this first use case is when one user U and its creation in the form of an NFT T with wallet then the user U creates and transfers an entangled token A to T, and U keeps the entangled token B in the U’s wallet.  

In both cases it is advisable that the entangled tokens cannot be re-transferred, that means that only once can be transferred from their supply to the definite wallet, of the NFT or of the user.

These applications of entangled tokens are envisaged to be useful for 
1.	NFT authorship / art creation
2.	Distribution of royalties by the creator.
3.	Authenticity of a work of art: creation limited to the author (e.g. only 1000 copies if there are 1000 1000 entangled tokens in that NFT).
4.	Usowners
5.	Reformulation of property rights: the one who owns the property receives it without having to follow in the footsteps of the owners.
6.	Identity: Only those credentials that have an entangled token with you are related to you.
7.	Vreservers (value-reservers).

## Backwards Compatibility

> No backwards compatibility issues devised.

Reviewer: I don't think `devised` is the word you want here.

## Reference Implementation
Mint two tokens, and only two, at the contract constructor, and set the `minted` property to true:

```solidity
    bool private _minted;

    constructor(string memory name, string memory symbol, string memory base_uri) ERC721(name, symbol) {
        baseUri = base_uri;
        mint(msg.sender,0);
        mint(msg.sender,1);
        _minted = true;
    }
```

Add additional functions to allow both NFT user owners to operate with other ERC20 tokens owned by the contract:

```solidity
    function spendTokens(WalletNFT2 wallet, IERC20 token_address, address recipient, uint256 amount) public onlyOwners {
        wallet.transferTokens(token_address, recipient, amount);
    }

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think this reference implementation gives enough information about the standard itself. What is a `WalletNFT2`?

Author: Corrected

## Security Considerations

> There are no backwards compatibility issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are no security considerations.

```

## Copyright

> Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE).

```

---
eip: 4950
title: Entangled Tokens
description: ERC-721 extension with two tokens minted that are tied together
author: Victor Munoz (@victormunoz)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/entangled-tokens/8702
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-03-28
requires: 721
---

## Abstract

> This EIP standardizes an interface for creating entangled pairs of tokens. An entangled pair of tokens give his owners the right to operate with this common wallet.

Reviewer: Sorry to push back on this again, but I still don't find this abstract very clear. Do you mean something like:

```suggestion
This EIP standardizes an interface for creating entangled pairs of tokens. An entangled pair of tokens are always owned by the same wallet, and can be operated on by the same owner.

```

Author: This correction is wrong.
Entangled tokens are minted by the same contract, but will later be owned by two different addresses.
These tokens allow its owners to transact with the budget of the wallet that minted them.
How can I write this in a simple sentence?

Reviewer: > allow its owners to transact with the budget of the wallet that minted them

I just don't see how this is technically possible, unless budget and/or wallet mean something different than what I'm used to.

Author: > I just don't see how this is technically possible, unless budget and/or wallet mean something different than what I'm used to.

By budget I mean the ERC20 tokens that the contract owns. And wallet is the address of the contract.
Specifically, the contract (EIP-4950), when published (deployed), gets an address. So you can send ERC20 tokens to this address. And you can also make this address to be the owner of some external NFTs (ERC721 token). These tokens are the "budget" of the contract wallet. And the overall idea of this EIP is that this contract can also mint tokens (entangled) and the owners of this entangled tokens will be able to operate with the contract budget,

Reviewer: Ah! I think I might understand now. Let me know if I have this correctly:

> This EIP defines an interface for delegating control of a smart contract wallet to pairs of users using entangled EIP-721 non-fungible tokens.

If that's correct, I think it'd make a much more understandable abstract.

## Motivation

> The motivation is to provide an easy way to share a wallet through NFTs. So that the act of buying an NFT (in a marketplace) gives the buyer the privilege to have access to a given wallet. This wallet could have budget in many tokens, or even be the propietary of other NFTs.

Reviewer: I really don't get the connection here between "pairs of NFTs with the same owner" and "sharing wallets".

Author: Because it is not pairs of NFTs with the same owner.
The NFTs can (and will) be owned by different users.

> An use case is to keep contact between an artist and an buyer of its NFTs. If an artist T has created a digital piece of art P with an NFT, then T creates 2 entangled tokens A and B so that he keeps A and transfer B to P. By construction of entangled tokens, only one transfer is possible for them, thus the artist proofs he’s been the creator of P by sending a transaction to A that is visible from B. Otherwise, the owner of P might check the authenticity of the artist by sending a transaction to B so that the artist might proof by showing the outcome out of A.

Reviewer: Can't you check that `T` is the creator of an NFT by looking at the transaction history, or am I missing something?

Author: The point is that if the NFT buyer sees that something changed (for example the balance) in the shared wallet (shared with the artist T), then it means that the artist has been the author of that change. Because only the artist (and himself) can make changes to that shared wallet.
And viceversa (if the buyer sends something to the shared wallet, for example a donation, the the artist can withdraw it).

They are "connected" through the entangled tokens. They don't need to check in any blockchain explorer for the transaction history. It is implicit. And in the future you could even make this check programatically (from other contracts).

An extension of this first use case is when one user U and its creation in the form of an NFT T with wallet then the user U creates and transfers an entangled token A to T, and U keeps the entangled token B in the U’s wallet.  

These applications of entangled tokens are envisaged to be useful for 
1.	NFT authorship / art creation
2.	Distribution of royalties by the creator.
3.	Authenticity of a work of art: creation limited to the author (e.g. only 1000 copies if there are 1000 1000 entangled tokens in that NFT).

> 4.	Usowners

Reviewer: I am not familiar with this term.

Author: It means "users are owners of the NFT", so that an user consuming an NFT, becomes also owner (partially) of it

Reviewer: Please include that definition in the EIP itself.

Author: Done

5.	Reformulation of property rights: the one who owns the property receives it without having to follow in the footsteps of the owners.
6.	Identity: Only those credentials that have an entangled token with you are related to you.
7.	Vreservers (value-reservers).

## Specification

> A tangled token is an NFT (ERC-721) with a modification such that it mints exactly two tokens at the contract deployment, and the token owners have access to the contract wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entangled token is an NFT (ERC-721) with a modification such that it mints exactly two tokens at the contract deployment, and the token owners have access to the contract wallet.

```

> Also, a `tokenTransfer` function is to be be added in order to allow the token owners to transact with the ERC20 tokens owned by the contract/NFT itself.

Reviewer: I'd recommend creating a Solidity interface for your extension, and including it in the "Specification" section.

An extension of this first use case is when one user U and its creation in the form of an NFT T with wallet then the user U creates and transfers an entangled token A to T, and U keeps the entangled token B in the U’s wallet.  

These applications of entangled tokens are envisaged to be useful for 
1.	NFT authorship / art creation
2.	Distribution of royalties by the creator.
3.	Authenticity of a work of art: creation limited to the author (e.g. only 1000 copies if there are 1000 1000 entangled tokens in that NFT).
4.	Usowners
5.	Reformulation of property rights: the one who owns the property receives it without having to follow in the footsteps of the owners.
6.	Identity: Only those credentials that have an entangled token with you are related to you.
7.	Vreservers (value-reservers).

## Specification

> An entangled token is an NFT (ERC-721) with a modification such that it mints exactly two tokens at the contract deployment, and the token owners have access to the contract wallet.

Reviewer: The first time an EIP is mentioned, it must be linked. EIP references must also follow the format `EIP-*`.

```suggestion
An entangled token is an NFT ([EIP-721](./eip-721.md)) with a modification such that it mints exactly two tokens at the contract deployment, and the token owners have access to the contract wallet.
```

> Also, a `tokenTransfer` function is to be be added in order to allow the token owners to transact with the ERC20 tokens owned by the contract/NFT itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, a `tokenTransfer` function is to be be added in order to allow the token owners to transact with the [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens owned by the contract/NFT itself.

```

## Rationale

> We decide to extend ERC721 (ERC1155 could be also possible) because the main purpose of this is to be compatible with current marketplaces platforms. This entangled NFTs will be listed in a marketplace, and the user who buys it will have then the possibility to transact with the wallet properties (fungible and non fungible tokens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decide to extend [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) ([EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md) could be also possible) because the main purpose of this is to be compatible with current marketplaces platforms. This entangled NFTs will be listed in a marketplace, and the user who buys it will have then the possibility to transact with the wallet properties (fungible and non fungible tokens).

```

---
eip: 4950
title: Entangled Tokens
description: ERC-721 extension with two tokens minted that are tied together
author: Victor Munoz (@victormunoz)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/entangled-tokens/8702
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-03-28
requires: 721
---

## Abstract
This EIP standardizes an interface for creating entangled pairs of tokens. An entangled pair of tokens give his owners the right to operate with this common wallet.

## Motivation

> The motivation is to provide an easy way to share a wallet through NFTs. So that the act of buying an NFT (in a marketplace) gives the buyer the privilege to have access to a given wallet. This wallet could have budget in many tokens, or even be the propietary of other NFTs.

Reviewer: Grammar and spelling, not sure if I picked the right word:

```suggestion
The motivation is to provide an easy way to share a wallet through NFTs, so that the act of buying an NFT (in a marketplace) gives the buyer the privilege to have access to a given wallet. This wallet could have budget in many tokens, or even be the property of other NFTs.

```

> An use case is to keep contact between an artist and an buyer of its NFTs. If an artist T has created a digital piece of art P with an NFT, then T creates 2 entangled tokens A and B so that he keeps A and transfer B to P. By construction of entangled tokens, only one transfer is possible for them, thus the artist proofs he’s been the creator of P by sending a transaction to A that is visible from B. Otherwise, the owner of P might check the authenticity of the artist by sending a transaction to B so that the artist might proof by showing the outcome out of A.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A use case is to keep contact between an artist and an buyer of its NFTs. If an artist T has created a digital piece of art P with an NFT, then T creates 2 entangled tokens A and B so that he keeps A and transfer B to P. By construction of entangled tokens, only one transfer is possible for them, thus the artist proofs he’s been the creator of P by sending a transaction to A that is visible from B. Otherwise, the owner of P might check the authenticity of the artist by sending a transaction to B so that the artist might proof by showing the outcome out of A.
```

> An extension of this first use case is when one user U and its creation in the form of an NFT T with wallet then the user U creates and transfers an entangled token A to T, and U keeps the entangled token B in the U’s wallet.  

Reviewer: > its creation

It is not clear what `its` is referring to in this sentence.

Reviewer 2: This still needs to be resolved

These applications of entangled tokens are envisaged to be useful for 
1.	NFT authorship / art creation
2.	Distribution of royalties by the creator.
3.	Authenticity of a work of art: creation limited to the author (e.g. only 1000 copies if there are 1000 1000 entangled tokens in that NFT).
4.	Usowners (users that consume an NFT also become -partial- owners of the NFT)
5.	Reformulation of property rights: the one who owns the property receives it without having to follow in the footsteps of the owners.
6.	Identity: Only those credentials that have an entangled token with you are related to you.
7.	Vreservers (value-reservers).

## Specification

> An entangled token is an NFT ([EIP-721](./eip-721.md)) with a modification such that it mints exactly two tokens at the contract deployment, and the token owners have access to the contract wallet.

Reviewer: How's this sound?

```suggestion
An entangled token contract implements [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) with the additional restriction that it only ever mints exactly two tokens at contract deployment. The entangled token contract also implements a smart contract wallet that can be operated by the owners of those two tokens.
```

> Also, a `tokenTransfer` function is to be be added in order to allow the token owners to transact with the [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens owned by the contract/NFT itself.

Reviewer: You'll need to provide a function signature for `tokenTransfer` in the specification section.

Author: It is actually the transferTokens function in the specification section.
Corrected it.

Reviewer 2: The function signature is still not provided.

## Rationale
We decide to extend [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) ([EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md) could be also possible) because the main purpose of this is to be compatible with current marketplaces platforms. This entangled NFTs will be listed in a marketplace, and the user who buys it will have then the possibility to transact with the wallet properties (fungible and non fungible tokens).

## Backwards Compatibility
No backwards compatibility issues.

## Reference Implementation
Mint two tokens, and only two, at the contract constructor, and set the `minted` property to true:

```solidity
bool private _minted;

constructor(string memory name, string memory symbol, string memory base_uri) ERC721(name, symbol) {
        baseUri = base_uri;
        mint(msg.sender,0);
        mint(msg.sender,1);
        _minted = true;
    }
    
function mint(address to, uint256 tokenId) public virtual {
    _mint(to, tokenId);
}

function _mint(address to, uint256 tokenId) internal virtual override {
    require(!_minted, "ERC4950: already minted");
    super._mint(to, tokenId);
}
```

> Add additional functions to allow both NFT user owners to operate with other ERC20 tokens owned by the contract:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add additional functions to allow both NFT user owners to operate with other EIP-20 tokens owned by the contract:

```

```solidity
    modifier onlyOwners() {
        require(balanceOf(msg.sender) > 0, "Caller does not own any of the tokens");
        _;
    }

> function transferTokens(IERC20 token, address recipient, uint256 amount) public onlyOwners {

Reviewer: Should this be `tokenTransfer` to match the Specification section?

> ---

Reviewer 2: Please use unix-style line endings (LF).

Author: How??
I am using the online editor and don't see any option to change the encoding

Reviewer 2: Don't use the online editor. I recommend using VSC.

Author: I think it is fixed now

eip: 4950
title: Entangled Tokens

> description: ERC-721 extension with two tokens minted that are tied together

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: EIP-721 extension with two tokens minted that are tied together
```

> author: Víctor Muñoz (@victormunoz), Josep Lluis de la Rosa (@peplluis7), @easyinnova

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
author: Víctor Muñoz (@victormunoz), Josep Lluis de la Rosa (@peplluis7), Easy Innova (@easyinnova)
```

discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/entangled-tokens/8702
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-03-28

> requires: 721, 1155

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requires: 20, 721, 1155
```

Since this references `EIP-20`, notably in the Spec, `20` must be added to the `requires` list.

---
eip: 4950
title: Entangled Tokens
description: ERC-721 extension with two tokens minted that are tied together
author: Victor Munoz (@victormunoz)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/entangled-tokens/8702
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-03-28

> requires: 721

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requires: 721, 1155
```

---

## Abstract

> This EIP defines an interface for delegating control of a smart contract wallet to pairs of users using entangled EIP-721 non-fungible tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This EIP defines an interface for delegating control of a smart contract wallet to pairs of users using entangled [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) non-fungible tokens.
```

Also, a `tokenTransfer` function is to be be added in order to allow the token owners to transact with the [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens owned by the contract/NFT itself. The function signature is as follows:

```solidity
    function tokenTransfer(IERC20 token, address recipient, uint256 amount) public onlyOwners;
```

## Rationale
We decide to extend [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) ([EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md) could be also possible) because the main purpose of this is to be compatible with current marketplaces platforms. This entangled NFTs will be listed in a marketplace, and the user who buys it will have then the possibility to transact with the wallet properties (fungible and non fungible tokens).

## Backwards Compatibility
No backwards compatibility issues.

## Reference Implementation
Mint two tokens, and only two, at the contract constructor, and set the `minted` property to true:

```solidity
bool private _minted;

> constructor(string memory name, string memory symbol, string memory base_uri) ERC721(name, symbol) {
>         baseUri = base_uri;
>         mint(msg.sender,0);
>         mint(msg.sender,1);
>         _minted = true;
>     }
>     
> function mint(address to, uint256 tokenId) public virtual {
>     _mint(to, tokenId);
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
constructor(string memory name, string memory symbol, string memory base_uri) ERC721(name, symbol) {
        baseUri = base_uri;
        _mint(msg.sender,0);
        _mint(msg.sender,1);
        _minted = true;
    }
```
